:Author: Daniel Kastl
:License: Creative Commons

.. _foss4g2008-ch09:

================================================================
 pgRouting with Shooting-Star algorithm
================================================================

Shooting-Star algorithm is the latest of pgRouting shortest path algorithms.
Its speciality is that it routes from link to link, not from vertex to vertex 
as Dijkstra and A-Star algorithms do.
This makes it possible to define relations between links for example, and it 
solves some other vertex-based algorithm issues like "parallel links", which
have same source and target but different costs.

Prepare routing table for Shooting-Star
---------------------------------------

For Shooting-Star you need to prepare your network table and add the 
"reverse_cost" and "to_cost" column. Like A-Star this algorithm also has a
heuristic function, which prefers links closer to the target of the search.

.. code-block:: sql

	ALTER TABLE ways ADD COLUMN reverse_cost double precision;
	UPDATE ways SET reverse_cost = length;

	ALTER TABLE ways ADD COLUMN to_cost double precision;
	ALTER TABLE ways ADD COLUMN rule text;


Shortest Path Shooting-Star core function
-----------------------------------------

Shooting-Star algorithm introduces two new attributes:

* rule: a string with a comma separated list of edge IDs, which describes a rule for turning restriction (if you came along these edges, you can pass through the current one only with the cost stated in to_cost column)
* to_cost: a cost of a restricted passage (can be very high in a case of turn restriction or comparable with an edge cost in a case of traffic light)

.. code-block:: sql

	shortest_path_shooting_star( sql text, 
			   source_id integer, 
			   target_id integer, 
			   directed boolean, 
			   has_reverse_cost boolean ) 


**Note:**

* Source and target IDs are link IDs.
* Undirected graphs ("directed false") ignores "has_reverse_cost" setting

Example for Shooting-Star "rule"
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shooting* algorithm calculates a path from edge to edge (not from vertex to 
vertex). Column vertex_id contains start vertex of an edge from column edge_id.

To describe turn restrictions:

.. code-block:: sql

	 gid | source | target | cost | x1 | y1 | x2 | y2 | to_cost | rule
	-----+--------+--------+------+----+----+----+----+---------+------
	  12 |      3 |     10 |    2 |  4 |  3 |  4 |  5 |    1000 | 14


means that the cost of going from edge 14 to edge 12 is 1000, and

.. code-block:: sql

	 gid | source | target | cost | x1 | y1 | x2 | y2 | to_cost | rule
	-----+--------+--------+------+----+----+----+----+---------+------
	  12 |      3 |     10 |    2 |  4 |  3 |  4 |  5 |    1000 | 14, 4


means that the cost of going from edge 14 to edge 12 through edge 4 is 1000.

If you need multiple restrictions for a given edge then you have to add 
multiple records for that edge each with a separate restriction.

.. code-block:: sql

	 gid | source | target | cost | x1 | y1 | x2 | y2 | to_cost | rule
	-----+--------+--------+------+----+----+----+----+---------+------
	  11 |      3 |     10 |    2 |  4 |  3 |  4 |  5 |    1000 | 4
	  11 |      3 |     10 |    2 |  4 |  3 |  4 |  5 |    1000 | 12


means that the cost of going from either edge 4 or 12 to edge 11 is 1000. And 
then you always need to order your data by gid when you load it to a shortest 
path function..

Example of Shooting-Star core function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: sql

	SELECT * FROM shortest_path_shooting_star('
			SELECT gid as id, 
				 source::integer,
				 target::integer, 
				 length::double precision as cost, 
				 x1, y1, x2, y2,
				 rule, to_cost 
				FROM ways', 
			293, 761, false, false); 


.. code-block:: sql

	 vertex_id | edge_id |        cost         
	-----------+---------+---------------------
		  4232 |     293 |  0.0059596293824534
		  3144 |     293 |  0.0059596293824534
		  4232 |    4632 |  0.0846731039249787
		   ... |     ... |  ...
		    51 |     761 |  0.0305298478239596
	(63 rows)


Wrapper function WITH bounding box
----------------------------------

Wrapper functions extend the core functions with transformations, bounding box 
limitations, etc.. 

.. code-block:: sql

	SELECT gid, AsText(the_geom) AS the_geom
		FROM shootingstar_sp('ways', 293, 761, 0.1, 'length', true, true);


.. code-block:: sql

	  gid   |                              the_geom      
	--------+---------------------------------------------------------------
		293 | MULTILINESTRING((18.4074149 -33.9443308,18.4074019 -33.9443833))
		293 | MULTILINESTRING((18.4074149 -33.9443308,18.4074019 -33.9443833))
	   4632 | MULTILINESTRING((18.4074149 -33.9443308,18.4077388 -33.9436183))
		... | ...
		762 | MULTILINESTRING((18.4241422 -33.9179275,18.4237423 -33.9182966))
		761 | MULTILINESTRING((18.4243523 -33.9177154,18.4241422 -33.9179275))
	(62 rows)


**Note:**
 
* There is currently no wrapper function for A-Star without bounding box, since bounding boxes are very useful to increase performance. If you don't need a bounding box Dijkstra will be enough anyway.
* The projection of OSM data is "degree", so we set a bounding box containing start and end vertex plus a 0.1 degree buffer for example.


