:Author: Daniel Kastl
:License: Creative Commons

.. _foss4g2008-ch11:

================================================================
 Advanced usage of pgRouting shortest path search
================================================================

An ordinary shortest path query with result usualy looks like this:

.. code-block:: sql

	SELECT * FROM shortest_path_shooting_star(
		'SELECT gid as id, source, target, length as cost, x1, y1, x2, y2, rule, 
		to_cost, reverse_cost FROM ways', 1955, 5787, true, true);
	
	 vertex_id | edge_id |        cost         
	-----------+---------+---------------------
		  8134 |    1955 | 0.00952475464810279
		  5459 |    1956 |  0.0628075563112871
		  8137 |    1976 |  0.0812786367080268
		  5453 |     758 |  0.0421747270358272
		  5456 |    3366 |  0.0104935732514831
		 11086 |    3367 |   0.113400030221047
		  4416 |     306 |   0.111600379959229
		  4419 |     307 |  0.0880411972519595
		  4422 |    4880 |  0.0208599114366633
		  5101 |     612 |  0.0906859882381495
		  5102 |    5787 |    80089.8820919459
	(11 rows)


That is usually called SHORTEST path, which means that a length of an edge is 
its cost.

**Costs can be anything ("Weighted costs")**

But in real networks we have different limitations or preferences for different 
road types for example. In other words, we want to calculate CHEAPEST path - a 
path with a minimal cost. There is no limitation in what we take as costs.

When we convert data from OSM format using the osm2pgrouting tool, we get these 
two additional tables for road types and classes:

.. code-block:: sql

	\d classes
		                                                                    
	  id |   name    
	-----+------------
	   2 | cycleway
	   1 | highway
	   4 | junction
	   3 | tracktype


.. code-block:: sql

	\d types

	 id  | type_id |        name        |  cost 
	-----+---------+--------------------+--------
	 201 |       2 | lane               |   1  
	 204 |       2 | opposite           |   1  
	 203 |       2 | opposite_lane      |   1  
	 202 |       2 | track              |   1  
	 117 |       1 | bridleway          |   1  
	 113 |       1 | bus_guideway       |   1  
	 118 |       1 | byway              |   1  
	 115 |       1 | cicleway           |   1  
	 116 |       1 | footway            |   1  
	 108 |       1 | living_street      |   1  
	 101 |       1 | motorway           |   0.2  
	 103 |       1 | motorway_junction  |   0.2  
	 102 |       1 | motorway_link      |   0.2  
	 114 |       1 | path               |   100  
	 111 |       1 | pedestrian         |   100  
	 106 |       1 | primary            |   100  
	 107 |       1 | primary_link       |   100  
	 107 |       1 | residential        |   100  
	 100 |       1 | road               |   0.7  
	 100 |       1 | unclassified       |   0.7  
	 106 |       1 | secondary          |   10  
	 109 |       1 | service            |   10  
	 112 |       1 | services           |   10  
	 119 |       1 | steps              |   10  
	 107 |       1 | tertiary           |   10  
	 110 |       1 | track              |   10  
	 104 |       1 | trunk              |   10  
	 105 |       1 | trunk_link         |   10  
	 401 |       4 | roundabout         |   10  
	 301 |       3 | grade1             |   15  
	 302 |       3 | grade2             |   15  
	 303 |       3 | grade3             |   15  
	 304 |       3 | grade4             |   15  
	 305 |       3 | grade5             |   15  


Road class is linked with the ways table by class_id field. Cost values for 
classes table are assigned arbitrary. 

.. code-block:: sql

	UPDATE classes SET cost=15 WHERE id>300;


For better performance it is worth to create an index on id field of classes table. 

.. code-block:: sql

	CREATE INDEX class_idx ON ways (id);


The idea behind these two tables is to specify a factor to be multiplied with 
the cost of each link (usually length):

.. code-block:: sql

	SELECT * FROM shortest_path_shooting_star(
		'SELECT gid as id, class_id, source, target, length*c.cost as cost, 
			x1, y1, x2, y2, rule, to_cost, reverse_cost*c.cost as reverse_cost 
		FROM ways w, classes c 
		WHERE class_id=c.id', 1955, 5787, true, true);
		
	 vertex_id | edge_id |        cost         
	-----------+---------+---------------------
		  8134 |    1955 | 0.00666732825367195
		  5459 |    1956 |   0.043965289417901
		  8137 |    1992 |   0.126646230936747
		  5464 |     762 |   0.827868704808978
		  5467 |     763 |    0.16765902528648
		   ... |     ... |                 ...
		  9790 |    5785 | 0.00142107468268373
		  8548 |    5786 | 0.00066608685984761
		 16214 |    5787 |  0.0160179764183892
	(69 rows)


We can see that the shortest path result is completely different from the 
example before. We call this "weighted costs".

Another example is to restrict access to roads of a certain type:

.. code-block:: sql

	UPDATE classes SET cost=100000 WHERE name LIKE 'motorway%';


Through subqueries you can "mix" your costs as you like and this will change
the results of your routing request immediately. Cost changes will affect the 
next shortest path search, and there is no need to rebuild your network. 
